As you begin this practice, make sure you won’t be disturbed. 
You may sit in a chair with your feet flat on the floor, or on a cushion – wherever you may be comfortable. Just be sure the position you find is one that you can maintain long enough for this meditation, about 15 minutes. Be kind to yourself. If you find that you need to shift, do so slowly and mindfully. 
When you meditate, it’s okay to have thoughts – they will come! Welcome them. Meditation need not be a strain. Don’t try too hard. Bring your gentle, nonjudgmental attention back to this morning meditation when you find your thoughts have taken you somewhere else. 
Let go of expectations. You have come to your chair or cushion. Let yourself settle into this practice to benefit from this time of calm and silence. Once you begin, stick with it until the end. 
Close your eyes, or cap them halfway, with a soft, unfocused gaze.
Bring your awareness to the breath. Inhale through your nose to your belly, then fill your chest. Hold for a moment, and release, starting with your chest and then the belly. Do this two more times.
Inhale again through your nostrils, and pause.
Breathe out through your mouth, and pause at the end of your exhale. Listen to the silence.
If you find your thoughts wandering, gently come back to this morning meditation. Thoughts are okay. They will come. Gently let them go by coming back to this meditation. Be kind to yourself and let go of any judgment. 
You’re meditating correctly.
For the next few breaths, bring your awareness to the rise and fall of the chest, pausing at the end of each inhale and exhale to touch the silence. 
Now, take two or three deep yawns. You can “fake yawn” until one comes on. 
Let your breathing return to a normal pace. Notice the natural rhythm of your breath. 
Bring your attention to the top of your head. Relax the muscles at the top, the sides and back of your head. 
Move to your forehead and soften it. Soften the eyebrows, the eyes, your ears, and your cheeks.
Let your jaw relax, your tongue, your lips.
Bring your attention to the throat. Allow the muscles surrounding it to relax. Soften the back of the neck. Move to your attention to your shoulders and do the same.
Now focus on your upper arms, forearms, and hands, relaxing each as you go. 
Relax each finger: the thumb, your index finger, the middle finger, your ring finger and pinky. Relax the palms of your hands.
Bring your awareness to your chest. Soften the muscles that make up the chest wall. Relax your belly, & your lower abdomen.
Move to the top of your back. Relax the muscles around your shoulder blades, the middle part of your back, and the lower part, all the way down to the buttocks.
Relax your right thigh, the muscles around your knee, the front of your leg, your calf muscle, your right ankle, your right foot and toes.
Now relax your left thigh, the muscles around your left knee, the front of your left leg, your calf, your ankle, your left foot, and toes.
Bring your attention to your whole body. Notice any sensations you feel. Bring your gentle attention to any area that you would like to relax further. 
Scan your entire body as you breathe. Let your whole being settle into this morning practice.
As the morning  sun rises, feel its warm rays of light infusing you with beautiful, yellow energy. 
Allow the ribbons of light to surround your body, relaxing it. 
Observe your breath. Your calm breathing. If you find that your thoughts take you somewhere else, come back to the breath. 
Feel your chest rise with each inhale. Notice the parts of the body that gently move.
Notice your chest and abdomen as you exhale. Feel the parts of your body that move.
With each breath, feel the morning energy gently waking your entire body. Notice any sensations you might feel. 
Breathe in, sending oxygen to your head and face. Exhale.
Breathe, and send life-giving air to your neck, shoulders and chest muscles. Allow them to take in the air, and get ready for the day.
Breathe and send oxygen to your entire back. Allow those muscles to awaken.
Breathe. Send the oxygen to your abdomen and thighs.
Breathe. Send energy from your breath to the legs to power you through the day. 
Breathe. Allow the sun’s rays to infuse you with the energy you need to begin your day.
Now allow the energy from the air you breathe and the warm rays to begin to power you up for the whole day.
Breathe. Into your heart. Send golden energy to your heart center in gratitude for the beginning of this new day. 
Bring your awareness to the breath. Remain focused on the breath for the next couple of minutes. Thoughts are okay. When you realize your thoughts have taken you elsewhere, come back to the breath. 
Keep your eyes closed or capped as you near the end of this meditation. 
It’s important to come out of meditation slowly.
Keep your awareness on your breath. Allow yourself to feel the in and out rhythm of the rise and fall of the chest.
On your next inhale, allow the fingers and toes to wiggle if you wish. Gently shift your arms or legs as needed. 
When you’re ready, open your eyes with a soft downward gaze. Keep your focus inward. 
Open your eyes fully as you’re ready. You may return to your day.