Please make sure your eyes are closed softly, as if you were getting ready to fall asleep. But please do not fall asleep. Keep your eyes closed, but do not go to sleep. Stay awake and listen to my voice.
Make sure not to move. Feel your body remaining still and calm.
Feel your body becoming light, so light it begins to float up off the ground.
Begin to soar into the sky where it is warm and beautiful. The sky is blue and full of white, puffy clouds. Birds are singing, and the sunshine is warm and golden.
Now imagine your favorite place. Take a moment to imagine that place. Imagine what it looks like. Imagine what it smells like. Are there any other people there or are you by yourself? Continue soaring through the beautiful, blue sky to your favorite place. Fly overhead and see this place from the sky. Look down upon it. Enjoy seeing it from so high above.
Now fly past your favorite place and see a rainbow in the distance. Begin to soar through the sky toward the rainbow. The rainbow is beautiful, full of so many colors, so bright and playful. Fly straight into the rainbow and grab your favorite colors in your hand.
Continue to soar through the sky, finding a colorful kite flying nearby. Chase the kite and follow it as it travels on its own path through the sky. Allow the kite to continue on its way, as you continue on your way.
Find a large, leafy tree and begin to descend from the sky to land safely and softly on the tree branches. The tree is strong and supports you. Enjoy swinging from the trees branches and climbing down its trunk.
The grass at the base of the tree is green and soft. It is a restful place. The tree offers shade, and the grass offers comfort.
Lie down on the grass and relax under the shade of the tree.
Feel completely relaxed and still.
Listen to the birds singing overhead. Feel the warm breeze on your cheeks.
Now begin to slowly move your fingers and toes, making small movements in small places.
Begin making larger movements, even stretching.
When you are ready, open your eyes.