Begin by finding a quiet place where you won't be disturbed or interrupted.  Put your phone on airplane mode so calls/texts/email chimes won't disrupt you in this sacred moment you've dedicated to yourself.  Get yourself comfortable either sitting or lying down. If you are on a time constraint, we recommend setting a timer for however long you wish to meditate.  This allows you the opportunity to fully focus on your meditation practice rather than worrying about the time.  As you practice more and more, begin to add time as you see fit in order to enhance your meditation experience and reap the rewards of feeling calm.


Once settled into position, I would like you to imagine yourself waking in the morning before the sun comes up. You didn't need to set an alarm, you just woke on your own feeling completely refreshed and ready for the day ahead. It's still dark outside and since you have some extra time, you feel the urge to go outside and watch the sunrise.


Let your mind go to the place that is most relaxing to you. You could imagine going for a walk on the beach, or taking a nice long walk along your favorite nature trail.   Perhaps you imagine yourself sitting on you front porch all bundled up in your robe and slippers with a hot cup of coffee or tea. Wherever you imagine yourself being right now, begin to take in some deep breaths.


As you're breathing slowly in and out you notice a sense of calm flood your body. Repeat this slow deep breathing exercise 4 more times and then turn your focus to the sky.


As the sun has just barely started to rise you notice the stars still high above you begin to fade away as the outline of the trees that surround you begin to come to life as they are backlit by the gorgeous rising sun.


As the sun continues to come up, the sky begins to takes on a deep vibrant orange color.  As the trees become more vivid and clear, you watch the leaves on the trees sway with the morning breeze. You begin to feel the sensation of the breeze flowing through your hair ever so gently.


You are warm and comfortable. You close your eyes in this moment and feel a smile begin to stretch across your face. You begin to feel grateful for this moment.  It's as if you are the only one experiencing this specific view, this breeze, the smell of the fresh morning air right now.  You appreciate the feeling of relaxation in this quiet moment that you weren't even expecting to partake in.  




You feel completely present right now. You've come to the revelation that you're exactly where you're supposed to be and you are perfectly content with where you are on your journey right now. Continue to bask in this moment.. eyes closed, warm and snuggly, taking in the sounds that surround you, the birds chirping and the leaves in the wind. Soak up these precious moments for as long as you possibly can.




Take a few more deep breaths and then open your eyes again to see the deep orange sky has now turned to gold. The clouds have taken on a beautiful pink hue. It's a gorgeous morning and all is well. As you watch the beautiful pink clouds slowly pass through the morning sky, a sense of appreciation fills you up.


You appreciate everything that is currently working in your life. You appreciate the challenges too because you know they are meant to make you stronger. You feel beyond grateful for the ability to bask in this beautiful morning. A day filled with high hopes, ambition, strength and courage is waiting for you and you're getting an amazing start!


You are learning how to quiet your mind, you are learning how to appreciate the beauty in everything that surrounds you and fills your heart with love.


Be compassionate with yourself and with others today. Appreciate your journey and where other's are on theirs.  We are all passengers on this train of life and our journeys are all different.


The sky has now gone from gold to blue and your heart is full of love. May today be kind to you. May all of the things you want for this day come easy to you. May you take time to look up and appreciate the beauty of the sky today and remember this quiet and tranquil moment of peace and calm that got you started off on the right foot.
Namaste