[OPENING]
Put your phone in another room or on “Do Not Disturb.”
Find a quiet place to sit or lie down.
Make sure you are warm enough and get a blanket if you feel you may need it.
Take a moment to shift your body around until you feel completely comfortable.
Now close your eyes.
Take one long, slow, deep breath in and then let it out slowly.
Take another long, slow, deep inhale, but hold it for a moment this time.
Then let it go.
Take one more slow, full breath in. Hold it. Slowly let it all of the way out.
Continue to breathe slowly and gently.
Let go completely.
[RIGHT LEG]
Focus your attention on the right side of your body.
Notice how your right side feels.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
Now focus on your right foot. 
Now on your right big toe.
Relax your big toe. 
Relax your second toe. 
Soften your third toe. 
Soften your fourth toe. 
Relax your pinkie toe.
Soften all of your right toes.
Relax the joints of your toes.
Relax the top of your right foot, and the bottom of your right foot.
Soften your ankle.
Feel a wave of relaxation wash over your entire right foot, releasing any remaining tension and softening it completely.
Bring your attention to your right leg.
Completely soften and relax your right calf. 
Feel the relaxation flow up both sides of your calf to your shin.
Relax your right shin.
Soften the area under the kneecap.
Soften the areas on the sides of the knee cap.
Soften the area above the knee cap.
Relax the back of the knee.
Feel the softening and relaxation flow up into your right hamstrings.
Soften the hamstrings completely.
The relaxation flows up both sides of your right thigh to your quadriceps. 
Soften your right quadriceps.
Feel a wave of relaxation start at the top of your right leg and wash all of the way down to the foot, releasing any remaining tension and softening it further.
Feel the wave wash back up from your right foot all of the way back up to the top of your leg.
Your entire right foot and leg are relaxed completely. 
[LEFT LEG]
Focus your attention on the left side of your body.
Notice how your left side feels.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
Now focus on your left foot. 
Now on your left big toe.
Relax your big toe. 
Relax your second toe. 
Soften your third toe. 
Soften your fourth toe. 
Relax your pinkie toe.
Soften all of your left toes.
Relax the joints of your toes.
Relax the top of your left foot, and the bottom of your right foot.
Soften your ankle.
Feel a wave of relaxation wash over your entire left foot, releasing any remaining tension and softening it completely.
Bring your attention to your left leg.
Completely soften and relax your left calf. 
Feel the relaxation flow up both sides of your calf to your shin.
Relax your left shin.
Soften the area under the kneecap.
Soften the areas on the sides of the kneecap.
Soften the area above the kneecap.
Relax the back of the knee.
Feel the softening and relaxation flow up into your left hamstrings.
Soften the hamstrings completely.
The relaxation flows up both sides of your left thigh to your quadriceps. 
Soften your left quadriceps.
Feel a wave of relaxation start at the top of your left leg and wash all of the way down to the foot, releasing any remaining tension and softening it further.
Feel the wave wash back up from your left foot all of the way back up to the top of your leg.
Your entire left foot and leg are relaxed completely.
Both legs, both, ankles, and both feet are heavy and soft.
[GLUTES AND HIPS]
Now bring your attention to your hips and glutes.
Notice how your hips and glutes feel.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
Focus on your right glutes.
Feel a wave of relaxation wash up from the top of your right hamstrings up and over your right glutes, completely softening them.
Feel the relaxation flow around the right side of your glutes, up and around the right side of your pelvis, relaxing it completely.
The relaxation washes over the front of your pelvis, relaxing and softening your right hip flexors.
Any remaining tension in your right hip and glutes washes away completely, leaving them completely soft and heavy.
Focus on your left glutes.
Feel a wave of relaxation wash up from the top of your left hamstrings up and over your left glutes, completely softening them.
Feel the relaxation flow around the left side of your glutes, up and around the left side of your pelvis, relaxing it completely.
The relaxation washes over the front of your pelvis, relaxing and softening your left hip flexors.
Any remaining tension in your left hip and glutes washes away completely, leaving them soft and heavy.
Both hips and glutes are fully relaxed.
[TORSO]
Now bring your attention to your torso.
Notice how your core, chest, lower back, and upper back feel.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
Feel the wave of relaxation wash up over your abdomen.
Feel your abs relax completely.
Your internal organs relax and soften.
The relaxation washes down the sides of your abdomen to your lower back.
Your lower back muscles soften and relax completely.
The area around your spine gets completely softened, loosened, and relaxed.
This relaxing wave washes up your spine to your upper back and shoulder blades.
The area around the spine in your upper back gets completely softened, loosened, and relaxed. 
Your right shoulder blade relaxes. 
The area around your right shoulder blade softens. 
The area underneath your right shoulder blade relaxes completely.
Relaxation rolls over the area between your right and left shoulder blades.
It completely softens and relaxes.
Your left shoulder blade relaxes. 
The area around your left shoulder blade softens. 
The area underneath your left shoulder blade relaxes completely.
You feel the wave of relaxation flow under your armpits, softening and relaxing them.
It washes up and over your collarbones, softening them.
The relaxation washes down the front of your torso, first over your chest and breastbone, relaxing them completely.
Then, it washes down to your navel.
The wave of relaxation softens the muscles between each rib.
It flows down the sides of your ribcage, relaxing them completely.
Feel the wave of relaxation wash all of the way down from your shoulders to your hips, then back up again.
Any remaining tension in your entire torso washes away completely, leaving it soft and heavy.
[RIGHT ARM]
Now bring your attention to the top of your right shoulder and right arm.
Notice how the top of your right shoulder, your right tricep and bicep, right elbow, right forearm, and right hand feel.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
Feel a wave of relaxation from your right collarbone to the top of your right shoulder.
The top of your right shoulder softens and relaxes completely. 
Feel the relaxation flow to the ball of your right shoulder, softening as it goes.
It flows down into your upper arm.
Your right bicep softens.
Your right tricep softens.
Your upper arm is completely relaxed.
The relaxation flows down into your right elbow, softening it.
Feel your right forearm relax completely as the relaxation washes over it.
Your right wrist relaxes.
The wave of relaxation flows into the back of your right hand and all of your tendons and ligaments soften.
Focus on the palm of your right hand as relaxation flows into it, softening it.
Relaxation washes into your right thumb.
Your first finger.
Your right middle finger.
Your ring finger.
Your right pinkie finger.
Feel a wave of relaxation start at your right shoulder and flow all of the way down your arm into your fingers, then back up again.
Any remaining tension  in your right arm is completely washed away. 
[LEFT ARM]
Now bring your attention to the top of your left shoulder and left arm.
Notice how the top of your left shoulder, your left tricep and bicep, left elbow, left forearm, and left hand feel.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
Feel a wave of relaxation from your left collarbone to the top of your left shoulder.
The top of your left shoulder softens and relaxes completely. 
Feel the relaxation flow to the ball of your left shoulder, softening as it goes.
It flows down into your upper arm.
Your left bicep softens.
Your left tricep softens.
Your upper arm is completely relaxed.
The relaxation flows down into your left elbow, softening it.
Feel your left forearm relax completely as the relaxation washes over it.
Your left wrist relaxes.
The wave of relaxation flows into the back of your left hand and all of our tendons and ligaments soften.
Focus on the palm of your left hand as relaxation flows into it, softening it.
Relaxation washes into your left thumb.
Your first finger.
Your left middle finger.
Your ring finger.
Your left pinkie finger.
Feel a wave of relaxation start at your left shoulder and flow all of the way down your arm into your fingers, then back up again.
Any remaining tension in your left arm is completely washed away.
Both arms and hands are heavy and relaxed.
[NECK AND HEAD]
Now bring your attention to your neck and head.
Notice how your neck and head feel.
Locate any areas that seem tense.
Let the tension go.
The wave of relaxation washes back up your arms and shoulders.
Relaxation washes up over your neck.
Feel the front of your neck soften and relax completely.
The back of your neck becomes heavy and soft.
All tension is gone and your entire neck is loose and relaxed.
The wave of relaxation moves up into your jaw.
Feel your chin soften and relax.
Your lower lip softens and relaxes.
Your bottom teeth.
The bottom of your tongue.
The top of your tongue softens and relaxes.
Your top teeth and the roof of your mouth relax completely.
Your upper lip relaxes.
Relaxation washes over the space between your upper lip and nose and flows over your face, relaxing your jawbone and joints completely.
All tension in your jaw is gone and it feels heavy and soft.
The wave of relaxation washes up over the bridge of your nose and softens it.
Your cheekbones relax.
All tension in your eyes releases.
Your eyes are completely soft and relaxed.
Your temples relax and soften.
Feel the relaxation wash up over the space between your eyebrows.
Both of your brow bones become heavy and soft.
Relaxation washes up over your forehead.
Your forehead is completely relaxed and soft.
All of your face is loose and relaxed.
Feel the wave of relaxation wash up over your scalp.
It flows over your scalp onto the top of your head and washes down like water over the sides and back of your head.
The wave of relaxation starts at the crown of your head and washes all of the way down to your shoulders, then back up again.
Any remaining tension is released.
Your entire head is completely soft and completely relaxed.
Your entire body feels heavy, relaxed, and soft.
Let go completely.
[CLOSING]
Begin to notice what your hands are feeling underneath them.
Notice what your legs are feeling underneath them.
When you are ready, slowly move your hands and feet.
Sensations begin to come back to your body.
Begin to notice sounds around you.
Slowly move your head from side to side.
Notice smells in the air.
Before you open your eyes, notice what you are feeling right now.
Know that you carry this peace inside of you.
You can draw on this inner-peace anytime that you need it.
This feeling of calm contentment is always available within you.
When you are ready, open your eyes.
Sit up if you haven’t already.
Have a wonderful day.