Hey there, and thanks for gifting yourself these next few minutes.
It's important to remember that you're a priority, and allowing yourself even just a few short minutes of intentional reflection can really have a positive impact on the rest of your day.
So let's use these next few minutes to come back to center and set an intention for
the rest of your day.
Move into a comfortable position, whether you're seated at your desk at work or laying on the couch at home, and gently close your eyes and shift all of your attention onto your breathing, taking
slower, deeper breaths than you've taken all day so far.
Taking a deep breath in through your nose and slowly letting it out through your mouth.
And continuing to breathe that way, feeling your lungs expand out as you inhale.
And contract back in as you exhale.
Tune into your body, noticing how it feels.
Noticing if there's anything that it's trying to tell you.
Notice any place of tension or tightness in your body and give those areas permission to relax, sending love into those areas.
Thank your body for taking such good care of you, and let it know that it's okay to rest and relax for these next few minutes.
You may notice that your mind starts to wander off.
That's okay.
That's natural.
Just notice it and bring your attention back to your body using your breath as your anchor.
Try to picture one thing that's happened today that's made you smile or made you thankful or appreciative and just let that feeling fill you up for a moment.
Breathe that feeling in from the top of your head to the tips of your toes and allow yourself to smile, if that feels natural.
Now, focus on something that you can do today, whether it's for yourself or for someone else that will allow you to continue feeling this way.
It could be something as small as deciding to go to bed early tonight so that you have time to
finally read that book that's been on your bedside table.
Or the joy of getting dinner with a close friend.
What's one little thing you can plan for your day to bring that intentional joy to it?
Now just focus on that for a few minutes.
Sit in that feeling of joy and peace.
(light music)
Now let's take a few more deep breaths together.
A deep breath in, feeling your lungs expand out as you inhale, and everything contract
back in as you exhale.
Again, an even deeper breath than the one before it.
Holding that breath for a beat.
And exhaling everything out.
Last time, your deepest breath yet, sending that breath through your entire body.
And exhale it out, and in your own time slowly bring your awareness back to where you are and thank yourself for taking these few minutes to just be intentional and kind to yourself.
And when you're ready, you can gently open your eyes and enjoy the rest of your day.
(gentle piano music)

