Find a comfortable seat on your couch, chair, or in your favorite place in nature.
Settle into your body by connecting with your breath—slowly inhaling through your nose, slowly exhaling through your mouth. Notice how your body and mind begin to soften and relax.
Visualize a scene from nature during the fall: the reds, browns, darker greens, and yellows of the terrain around you, a cool breeze blowing, and the dryness of the brush, branches, and earth.
Now, imagine that your body, your breath, your emotions, and your mind are an extension of nature. Perhaps you see yourself as a tall oak tree, the mist rising off a lake at dawn, or you’re simply basking in the late afternoon sunset or the golden glow of a harvest moon.
Be aware that you are about to embark on an inward journey. As you prepare to rest and prepare for the budding of a new you after the winter ice thaws, dare yourself to dream of:
the person you would like to be
the activities you want to do
the environment you thrive in most
the lifestyle you want to have when you wake up from your deep sleep
Let your imagination run wild and allow yourself to see what you would see, to hear what you would hear, and to feel what you would feel if your dream came true.
Next, notice an area of your life where there is some heaviness—a burden or an unnecessary load. Maybe it’s physical belongings like an accumulation of furniture, clothing, old trinkets, or stacks of papers. Perhaps your baggage is within the area of your intimate relationship, your career, your health and fitness, or family. Let yourself see where there is an over-accumulation of physical stuff, emotional upset, mental challenges, or spiritual disconnect.
Next, reconnect with your dream of what your life could look like, feel like, and sound like once you are free of the burdensome weight you have been carrying. What would you be doing then that is different from how you are living now? How would your relationships begin to thrive? How would your energy levels and mental clarity be propelling you toward your goals? Create an internal representation (a visual image, a feeling, or a sound) of how you, your life, and your surroundings could be different.
As you bask in your picture of how things could be, ask yourself what qualities you would need to embrace to be the type of person who could powerfully catapult yourself from beneath the weight of what you now carry to the new you that awaits? Do you need to have more compassion toward yourself or others? Do you need to listen more attentively without the need to fix things or justify your position? Do you need to cultivate more strength so you can set and maintain boundaries? Do you need to be more honest and find a loving yet direct way to speak your truth? What characteristics would be most beneficial to acquire so that you can begin to take your next steps?
Now, envisioning the traits or characteristics that are empowering you to create change, ask yourself “what action steps do I need to take to feel inspired and motivated to charge powerfully forward? What emotions, beliefs, or behaviors do I need to let go of so that I can stop being a victim and become the person I am meant to be?” Ask your heart for guidance rather than your intellect, and allow yourself to hear what practice you need to cultivate or what action you need to take to prune your inner-outer world to clear a path for your next journey.
When you are ready, take a few slow, deep breaths and open your eyes. Take out your journal or notebook and make notes about whatever came up for you during the guided meditation. Write down:
How you want to be living your life
What needs to be cleared out or pruned
What qualities or characteristics you need to embrace
What specific action steps you need to take, including something you can do today
Go do that thing today. Tomorrow, do the next thing, and so on.
This will help you take charge of your life. It’s a process of letting go of anything that isn’t you—toxic relationships, limiting beliefs, and obstacles that prevent you from living your dream. It allows you to take responsibility for every choice you make and every action you take (or don’t take). Whenever you begin a new path, anything you haven’t cleared out or brought to completion will follow you onto the new path, so now is the time to let go of anything you need to leave behind as you begin a new season.
Approach the fall with anticipation, preparation, and excitement. Observe its energy and watch as it cyclically moves through its phases—transitioning from one moment to the next, sometimes intensely and sometimes gently.