Begin by lying comfortably on your back. Taking a moment to adjust your spine so that it is straight, ensuring that your legs are uncrossed, and place your left hand on your abdomen and your right hand on your heart.
When you’re ready, softly close your eyes.
On your next inhale, allow your stomach to lift up, pushing your left hand upwards, and then as the air continues to enter, feel your right hand rising with your chest and hold your breath at the top. When you’re ready to exhale, force the air out through your mouth as you feel your chest lowering. And then your left hand on your stomach lowers as you push all of the air out.
Continue this pattern of breathing.
You can imagine your stomach and your chest rising and falling, much like waves in the ocean. With every inhale, you feel your left hand lift up, followed by our right hand. And with every exhale, you feel your right hand lower down, followed by your left hand, as the air circulates in and out fully and completely.
In moments of anxiety, it is crucial that we extend our lower abdomens as far as possible on every inhale and contract it fully on every exhale, this signals to your body that it is safe to slow down.
When we experience anxiety, we often are only breathing into our chest. This shallow kind of breathing signals to our body that it’s time to be excited, that it’s time for our energy to increase. It may even signal that we are in an unsafe situation.
In fact, this kind of breathing is often what occurs when our bodies are in a fight, flight, or freeze response. Whenever you feel anxiety, intentionally force your abdomen to expand completely on every inhale, really engaging the muscles in your stomach to slow down this fight or flight response and drop-in instead to a feeling of peace, a feeling of comfort.
If you feel as though you have gotten the rhythm of this breath, you may let your palms rest at your sides or you can keep them where they are throughout the duration of this meditation.
No matter what, continually ensure that you are breathing in through your nose, sending the air all the way to your lower abdomen as your stomach expands, filling your lungs completely and exhaling completely. As you breathe this way, pay attention to the areas in your body in which you experience anxiety. For some people, this is a tightness in the chest. For others, it’s like a knot in the stomach.
Wherever it is within you. Just allow yourself to be present with it, not getting hung up on it or trying to alter it.
Just keep breathing slowly and gently as you allow yourself to be aware of it. Without judgment, just practicing an awareness of the anxiety as you breathe through your abdomen is an excellent skill. The more you practice this skill in meditation, the better you’ll be able to use it in the middle of experiencing anxiety. By slowing down like this and acknowledging your anxiety without trying to avoid it or run away from it, you just let yourself be still and notice it so that you may learn from it.
Anxiety is a messenger. It may be letting us know something that we are excited about. It may also be teaching us about something we strongly desire. Whatever you have anxiety about, you must have a strong desire for its opposite.
Let yourself explore the message your anxiety must-have for you.
Every emotion serves a purpose, even your anxiety. When you slow down and listen to the lesson that it has to offer you, you may find that it simply begins to fade.
Just be open and curious as you breathe in and out through your abdomen. Allow yourself to feel grateful to yourself for doing this work, for listening to your anxiety, for practicing a powerful breathing exercise to help you relax.
Allow yourself to lie here and breathe this way as long as you need to experience comfort. And whenever you feel ready, very slowly begin to wiggle your fingers and your toes…roll to one side, bringing yourself up into a seated position as it feels right to you. And whenever you’re ready, gently open your eyes.