Welcome to this relaxing meditation… get ready to surrender your old anxious ways and get fully connected to the real you…
I am honored to have your presence during this delightful relaxation session. Today you will remember the natural feeling of relaxation that is within you always, waiting for you to access it…
Get into a comfortable position and gently close your eyes.… Your arms rest softly by the sides of your body, your palms are facing upwards if you can… if not, have your arms and hands resting where they feel best…
Allow your legs to relax, let the tips of your feet fall slightly outward…. Grant your body permission to remain calm, yet your mind be awake and present while you listen to this meditation…
Breathing in, and let it go. Now become aware of your feet… let them relax completely… Breathing in, imagine you can send love to your feet. Breathing out, smile at them.  Inhale, become aware of your legs now. Exhaling, let each leg fully relax. Let go of any tension that may still be in your legs, feel them sink softly into the ground…. Breathing in, send all your love to your legs.  Breathing out, smile at them… Now bring awareness to your hands. Let go of any tension you may still hold in your hands…. Focus on each individual finger of the left hand… the thumb, index, middle finger, the ring finger and the little finger… Then the right hand: the thumb, index, middle finger, the ring finger, and the little finger. Feel the joy of having two hands and let each tiny cell in the hands relax.
Breathing in, having full awareness of your arms… Exhaling, let the arms relax thoroughly. Let them rest completely free of tension… With each breath, feel how the muscles in your arms melt. Breathing in, send all your love to your arms and your hands. Breathing out, smile at them.  With a nice inhalation, now take awareness of your shoulders.
With exhalation, give up any tension in the shoulder blades… Send them your tenderness and care and let them relax completely. Breathing in, turn your attention to your back now. Exhaling, let go of any tension that you may still hold in your back, allow stress to abandon your body, back into the ground and let go of any weight… Breathing in, send all of your love to your back and your shoulders. Breathing out as you smile at them with gratitude.
Breathing in, now turn your attention to your heart. Exhaling, let your heart calm and rest… The heart allows you to live… It is always there for you, every minute, every hour, every day… Feel how wonderful it is to have a heart that beats generously in your chest… With each breath, you feel how your heart relaxes even more… letting go of any woe… At each inhalation, send love to your heart. At each exhalation, gently smile with gratitude.
Breathing in, be aware of your face now… Exhaling… let each muscle of the face relax completely… melting away your worries… Release any tension around the mouth, around the eyes and on the forehead… Let the eyes relax and rest within the sockets… Breathing in, you have now become fully aware of your whole body… Breathing out, enjoy the entire sensation of your body and how it is completely relaxed and tranquil… anxiety-free…
Breathing in again, send love and compassion to the whole body… exhale, and smile at it… Be aware of the wonderful self-healing ability that works in your body automatically… Your loving attention supports it… and provides a space for total regeneration… Feel gratitude for every single cell in your body. See if you can let the body relax even more deeply…
Nice breath in and out… and once more, respecting the nature of a full breath…
Now, begin to visualize that you are outside, gazing up at the night sky… you are far out where the night sky is dark, perhaps down a long, winding country road… you can see city lights glowing with warmth in the distance, but you cannot hear the sounds of the city… all you can hear are the sounds of thousands of crickets and the occasional nighttime frog…
Travel down this country road even further until the city lights fade completely into the horizon…
After traveling deep into nature, you come to a wide and secluded glade… a perfect meadow that is big enough to allow a full, incredible view of the night sky… There is one tree in the middle of the glade with you… an old giant oak… you can see that this tree holds a city of fireflies… flickering their light for you…
Take a seat near this tree and feel the energy of life it holds under the midnight sky…
You spend a few moments to enjoy the sounds of nature… nothing is around you…. It’s only you and the sky…
Imagine how far away the common daily things like your job, your duties, your family and your routine are from you here…
You can feel the disconnection from all the hustle and bustle of life… and the connection with this night scene as if it were a blank canvas waiting for your color… a space where you can just chill, relax and be yourself with no need of superficiality…
Take a deep breath through the nose… smile… and exhale out of your mouth with a long deep sigh…
See the façade fade… the stress disappearing and melting away along with the chaos you left behind in the city…
In this hidden place, there is no time or space for bad emotions, even feelings, and memories… they simply cannot exist here…
It’s time to enjoy the silence…
The only thing you can hear is the sound of your breath and the only things you can see are the stars above you.
You feel blessed…you feel at peace…you feel grateful for this hidden secret place you can call your own..
Repeat these words to yourself…
I am safe…
I am in peace…
I disconnect from what no longer serves me…
I melt with silence…we are one…
In this glade, fully connect with the real you… the one who has been hiding… the one who is always too busy to just stop and recharge…
Now, it’s finally time.. now everything is clear… you are now your true self… complete, whole, and honest…
Use this scenario to get back to a place of tranquility and silence.. to finally be totally you…to enjoy the beauty of your presence here and now… without anxiety.
Gently return your awareness to the present situation, bringing back an authentic existence… and open your eyes…